# Please note, this content is no longer actively maintained.

The content of the SWC registry has not been thoroughly updated since 2020. It is known to be incomplete and may contain errors as well as crucial omissions.

For currently maintained guidance on known Smart Contract vulnerabilities written primarily as guidance for security reviewers, please see the
[EEA EthTrust Security Levels specification](https://entethalliance.org/specs/ethtrust-sl). As well as the latest release version, an
[Editor's draft](https://entethalliance.github.io/eta-registry/security-levels-spec.html) is available,
that represents the latest work of the group developing the specification.

General guidance for developers on what to consider to ensure security, that is currently maintained, is also available through the
[Smart Contract Security Verification Standard (SCSVS)](https://github.com/ComposableSecurity/SCSVS).

# Title

Missing Protection against Signature Replay Attacks

## Relationships

[CWE-347: Improper Verification of Cryptographic Signature](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/347.html)

## Description

It is sometimes necessary to perform signature verification in smart contracts to achieve better usability or to save gas cost. A secure implementation needs to protect against Signature Replay Attacks by for example keeping track of all processed message hashes and only allowing new message hashes to be processed. A malicious user could attack a contract without such a control and get message hash that was sent by another user processed multiple times.

## Remediation

In order to protect against signature replay attacks consider the following recommendations:

- Store every message hash that has been processed by the smart contract. When new messages are received check against the already existing ones and only proceed with the business logic if it's a new message hash.
- Include the address of the contract that processes the message. This ensures that the message can only be used in a single contract.
- Under no circumstances generate the message hash including the signature. The `ecrecover` function is susceptible to signature malleability (see also SWC-117).

## References

- [Medium - Replay Attack Vulnerability in Ethereum Smart Contracts Introduced by transferProxy()](https://medium.com/cypher-core/replay-attack-vulnerability-in-ethereum-smart-contracts-introduced-by-transferproxy-124bf3694e25)
