# Title 
Block Values as a Proxy for Time

## Relationships
[CWE-829: Inclusion of Functionality from Untrusted Control Sphere](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/829.html)

## Description 
Contracts often need access to time values to perform certain types of functionality. Values such as `block.timestamp`, and `block.number` can give you a sense of the current time or a time delta, however, they are not safe to use for most purposes.

In the case of `block.timestamp`, developers often attempt to use it to trigger time-dependent events. As Ethereum is decentralized, nodes can synchronize time only to some degree. Moreover, malicious miners can alter the timestamp of their blocks, especially if they can gain advantages by doing so. However, miners can't set a timestamp smaller than the previous one (otherwise the block will be rejected), nor can they set the timestamp too far ahead in the future. Taking all of the above into consideration, developers can't rely on the preciseness of the provided timestamp.

As for `block.number`, considering the block time on Ethereum is generally about 14 seconds, it's possible to predict the time delta between blocks. However, block times are not constant and are subject to change for a variety of reasons, e.g. fork reorganisations and the difficulty bomb. Due to variable block times, `block.number` should also not be relied on for precise calculations of time.

## Remediation

Developers should write smart contracts with the notion that block values are not precise, and the use of them can lead to unexpected effects. Alternatively, they may make use oracles.

## References

* [Safety: Timestamp dependence](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/Safety#timestamp-dependence)
* [Ethereum Smart Contract Best Practices - Timestamp Dependence](https://consensys.github.io/smart-contract-best-practices/recommendations/#timestamp-dependence)
* [How do Ethereum mining nodes maintain a time consistent with the network?](https://ethereum.stackexchange.com/questions/5924/how-do-ethereum-mining-nodes-maintain-a-time-consistent-with-the-network/5926#5926)
* [Solidity: Timestamp dependency, is it possible to do safely?](https://ethereum.stackexchange.com/questions/15047/solidity-timestamp-dependency-is-it-possible-to-do-safely)
* [Avoid using block.number as a timestamp](https://consensys.github.io/smart-contract-best-practices/recommendations/#avoid-using-blocknumber-as-a-timestamp)